.TH Mocka 1 "Fraunhofer Society"
.SH NAME
mocka \- MOCKA Modula-2 Compiler System
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmc \fR
[\fB-s\fR \fImodule\fR | \fB-c\fR \fImodule\fR | \fB-p\fR \fImodule\fR]
.PP
[\fB-d\fR \fIdir\fR] ...
[\fB-index\fR]
[\fB-noindex\fR]
[\fB-range\fR]
[\fB-norange\fR]
[\fB-static\fR]
[\fB-nostatic\fR]
[\fB-elf\fR]
[\fB-noelf\fR]
[\fB-g\fR]
[\fB-nog\fR]
[\fB-gc\fR]
[\fB-nogc\fR]
[\fB-ge\fR]
[\fB-noge\fR]
[\fB-S\fR]
[\fB-noS\fR]
.PP
[\fB-D\fR \fIdirectory\fR]
[\fB-link\fR \fIscript\fR]
[\fB-edit\fR \fIscript\fR]
[\fB-list\fR \fIscript\fR]
[\fB-asm\fR \fIscript\fR]
[\fB-syslib\fR \fIdir\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I mocka
is used to compile and link programs written in Modula-2 as defined in Wirth's 4th edition of "Programming in Modula-2" (aka PIM4).
.PP
.B "mocka -s"
.I module
translates a definition module
.I module
into a symbol file.
This must be present when the corresponding implementation module
.I module
or a file importing
.I module 
is compiled.
.PP
.B "mocka -c"
.I module
translates a program or implementation module
.I module
into an assembly code file.
This must be present when a program containing \fImodule\fR is generated.
.PP
.B "mocka -p"
.I module
creates an executable program for module \fImodule\fR.
.PP
If none of the options
.B -s
,
.B -c
,
.B -p
is specified,
.I mocka
enters \fIsession mode\fR.
.PP
In this mode the user need not worry about
consistent module configurations
and correct compilation order.
Required compilations are triggered automatically. 
They are based on a dependency graph
which is derived from the sources and
updated when necessary.
.PP
Session mode also simplifies the correction of errors.
If an error is detected a listing is created and the editor
is invoked automatically.
Errors may be corrected in the listing.
After leaving the editor the listing (without the error messages)
is written back to the source file.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\fB-s\fR \fImodule\fR" 20
Create symbol file for \fImodule\fR,
i.e. compile the definition module \fImodule\fR
in file \fImodule\fR.def .
.IP "\fB-c\fR \fImodule\fR" 20
Create code file for \fImodule\fR,
i.e. compile the program or implementation \fImodule\fR
in file \fImodule\fR.mod .
.IP "\fB-p\fR \fImodule\fR" 20
Create program \fImodule\fR,
i.e. link object files for
module \fImodule\fR
and all (transitively) imported modules.
.IP "\fB-d\fR \fIdir\fR" 20
Allow import from modules in library \fIdir\fR.
This options may be repeated.
Libraries (directories containing compiled modules)
are inspected in the order specified.
Finally the system library is inspected.
.IP "\fB-index\fR (\fB-noindex\fR)" 20
Generate (don't generate) code for index checks.
.IP "\fB-range\fR (\fB-norange\fR)" 20
Generate (don't generate) code for range checks.
.IP "\fB-static\fR (\fB-nostatic\fR)" 20
Do (or don't) link static.
.IP "\fB-elf\fR (\fB-noelf\fR)" 20
Produce assembler code needed for the ELF binary format. The -elf
option is passed to the asm and link script.
.IP "\fB-g\fR (\fB-nog\fR)" 20
Produce (no) debugging information using the stabs format. gdb can work
with this debugging information. Please read the file
README-MOCKA-DEBUGGING in the doc directory of mocka.
.IP "\fB-gc\fR (\fB-nogc\fR)" 20
Produce (no) constant debugging information. gdb can use it, but dbx
does currently not work with this.
.IP "\fB-ge\fR (\fB-noge\fR)" 20
Produce (no) enumeration debugging information. Use -noge if you have
a buggy gdb like gdb-4.15.1.
.IP "\fB-S\fR (\fB-noS\fR)" 20
The generated symbolic machine code is written to 
file \fImodule\fR.s
.PP
The following options may be used to overwrite 
installation parameters.
.IP "\fB-D\fR \fIdirectory\fR" 20
Specifies a directory where to place the compilation results
(the files *.[dmiros]) in. This option defaults to the current
directory.
.IP "\fB-link\fR \fIscript\fR" 20
Use
.I script
to invoke \fIld\fR.
When
.B -p
.I module
is specified,
.I mocka
collects all imported modules,
checks them for consistency,
creates a root module
and then invokes
.I script
.I module
.I codefiles
... .
.IP "\fB-edit\fR \fIscript\fR" 20
Use
.I script
to invoke the editor.
When one of the commands
.B d
.I module
or
.B i
.I module
is given during session mode
.I script
.I sourcefile
is called.
.IP "\fB-list\fR \fIscript\fR" 20
Use
.I script
to invoke the lister.
When an error is detectect during session mode
.I script
.I sourcefile
.I errorfile
is called.
.IP "\fB-asm\fR \fIscript\fR" 20
Use
.I script
to invoke the assembler. The compiler produces assembler
code, this script has to call the assembler to produce
object code.
.IP "\fB-syslib\fR \fIdir\fR" 20
Use \fIdir\fR as system library.
.SH COMMANDS
.IP "\fBd\fR \fImodule\fR" 20
Edit definition module \fImodule\fR.
(The \fImodule\fR 
in a
.B d
or
.B i
command may be omitted. Then the
.I module
of a previous
.B d
or
.B i
command is used.)
.IP "\fBi\fR \fImodule\fR" 20
Edit program or implementation \fImodule\fR.
.IP "\fBs\fR \fImodule\fR" 20
Create symbol files for \fImodule\fR
and all (transitively) imported modules
if they are missing or outdated.
.IP "\fBc\fR \fImodule\fR" 20
Create code file for \fImodule\fR
and symbol files for \fImodule\fR
and all (transitively) imported modules
if they are missing or outdated.
.IP "\fBp\fR \fImodule\fR" 20
Create code file for \fImodule\fR and code and symbol files for
all (transitively) imported modules
if they are missing or outdated.
Create program \fImodule\fR if missing or obsolete.
(\fImodule\fR 
may be omitted. Then the
.I module
of a previous
.B p
command is used.)
.IP "\fI<empty>\fR" 20
The empty command is used to resume processing after editing
a file. It is equivalent to the latest
.B s
,
.B c
or
.B p
command.

.IP "-\fIflag\fR" 20
(where 
.I flag
stands for 
\fBindex\fR,
\fBnoindex\fR,
\fBrange\fR,
\fBnorange\fR
\fBstatic\fR,
\fBnostatic\fR
, \fBg\fR
, \fBnog\fR
, \fBgc\fR
, \fBnogc\fR
, \fBS\fR
, \fBnoS\fR
, \fBelf\fR
, \fBnoelf\fR
) has the the same meaning as the corresponding 
.I mc
argument.
.IP "\fB-info\fR" 20
Shows current settings of compiler options.
.IP "\fBq\fR" 20
Quit.
.IP "\fIunixcommand\fR" 20
Commands not in the preceeding list are treated as Unix commands.
.SH SPECIAL
Procedures written in other languages may be accessed by Modula-2 procedures.
The compiler follows the type mapping and calling conventions of C.
External entities must be defined in \fIforeign modules\fR.
These are definition modules where the keyword
DEFINITION is replaced by FOREIGN.
For such a module the compiler does not insist on an implementation module.
When linking a program an argument \fI"M.o"\fR for each foreign
module \fIM\fR is passed to \fIld\fR.
(Hence, when an implementation of a foreign
module uses a further file \fIN.o\fR, there should be an import of a
corresponding (empty) foreign module \fIN\fR.)
.SH FILES
.IP "\fImodule\fR.def" 20
Source file of definition module \fImodule\fR.
.IP "\fImodule\fR.mod" 20
Source file of program or implementation \fImodule\fR.
.IP "\fImodule\fR.d" 20
Symbol file for definition module \fImodule\fR
used for inter module type checking. 
.IP "\fImodule\fR.r" 20
Reference file for \fImodule\fR used for linking.
.IP "\fImodule\fR.s" 20
Assembler file for \fImodule\fR.
.IP "\fImodule\fR.o" 20
Object code file for \fImodule\fR.
.IP "\fImodule\fR" 20
Executable program for program module \fImodule\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIProgramming in Modula-2\fR by Niklaus Wirth
(Springer-Verlag Berlin, Heidelberg, New York, Tokyo;
4th edition 1985)
.SH BUGS
Only one 
.I mocka
process can run in the current directory.
Only modules in the current directory
are considered to determine the compilation order
during session mode.
